hi I'm Sandra Duran Wilson and I want to
tell you about my upcoming class called
fun with foam and caustic this is a
class that is going to teach you how to
make paintings that have that waxy look
but we're not going to use any wax and
what is it about encaustic paintings
that people love
it's the layers it's the depth and it's
that beautiful finish that the paintings
have all of these were going to be able
to do without any kind of fumes or heat
so let me show you a few of the things
we're going to be doing one of the
things about encaustic painting creating
the layers that you see so I'm going to
be showing you how to make these amazing
collage papers that are actually
two-sided they're very thin papers they
have a lot of depth built in because as
you can see the color will be coming
from the backside through the front and
we're gonna get some amazing depth just
with a very thin paper then I'll be
showing you how to work with even
thinner papers we're gonna be again
working with both sides these will get
collage into pieces here's another one
that has a texture on it so we're
working with different mediums you're
gonna learn a lot about different
acrylic mediums how to get the acrylic
to behave in a way you want it to and
whether you want a waxy look a more
transparent look you're going to learn
all about these different acrylic
mediums I'm gonna be showing you a way
to work on a support that is easy enough
to flip back and forth so it's like
you're going to be working from back to
front so some of the specialty papers
we'll be working with are very thin but
strong tissue papers made from silk and
some rice paper and as you can
you'll be able to layer these and see
what's coming before when you put an
acrylic medium on here it actually turns
this paper from a page to translucent
and this is the whole idea but about
encaustic is building up these layers
you can see I can keep building these
layers and as I use an acrylic medium in
this it will become more transparent
it's just another idea and this one you
could I like this idea because you can
work with your composition so if you
have text music or another painting you
can get a preview of how you want your
piece to look before you commit to it
what other thing we'll be doing is how
to embed things like you would in wax so
this is all with acrylic not with wax
but things are actually embedded into
the layers we're going to be working
with shiny surface satin surface and
I'll be showing you how to alter the
final Sheen's so that it all looks like
wax I'm also going to be showing you how
to mount the encaustic look on two
different surfaces we're going to be
working on a stretched canvas is one way
to do it you can also work on a panel
surface so these are some of the
techniques that we'll cover in the fun
with faux and costume so please join me
in the workshop